Documentation~/Texture/generate-texture2d.md, before:

---
uid: generate-texture2d
---

# Generate Texture2D asset with a prompt

Texture2D Generator generates 2D images that you can use to create a sprite, backdrop, or billboard. For example, you can use a generated image as the albedo texture map of an unlit material on a billboard that represents a tree.

To generate 2D images using [Texture2D](https://docs.unity3d.com/6000.0/Documentation/ScriptReference/Texture2D.html) Generator, follow these steps:

1. To open the Texture2D Generator window, right-click an empty area in the **Project** window.
1. Select **Create** > **Rendering** > **Generate Texture 2D**.
1. To choose a model, select **Change**.

   The **Select Model** window opens. It displays the third-party AI models from partners like Scenario and Layer. 
1. Filter and search for models by tags or specific training styles, for example, **Anime** or **Cartoon 3D**. 
1. Select a model suited for the type of image you want to create.
1. In the **Prompt** field, describe the image you want to generate.

   For example, `Large tall tree`.

1. To exclude specific elements, enter the keywords in the **Negative Prompt** field.

   For example, `leaves`.
1. Set the following image properties:

   1. To set the number of images to generate, move the **Images** slider.
   1. Select the output image size from the **Dimensions** list.
   1. To specify a custom seed to generate consistent results, enable **Custom Seed** and enter a seed number.
   
      Every 2D image you generate has a seed. A seed is a number that you enter or that the tool generates automatically. 
1. Select **Generate**.

   The generated images appear in the **Generations** panel. Hover over an image to view details, such as the model used and prompt settings.

## Additional resources

* [Generate Texture2D asset with a prompt](xref:generate-texture2d)
* [Generate window](xref:generate-window)
* [Texture2D](https://docs.unity3d.com/6000.0/Documentation/ScriptReference/Texture2D.html)

Commit message:

com.unity.ai.generators@1.0.0-pre.7 ## [1.0.0-pre.7] - 2025-05-12
### Added

- Added more items to the Model Selector Sidebar.
- Users can now name assets before they are created.
- Added the ability to open all material terrain layers simultaneously from terrain object.
- Added multiple tooltips.
- Added some missing model icons.
- Enabled Sprite Editor customization for opening the 'Promote Asset' generator window.
- Added support for material terrain layers.
- Added documentation regarding generated assets.
- Added documentation for the 'unityai' label.
- Added a new documentation topic on using custom seeds.

### Changed

- Update SDK to version 0.18.0.
- Improved material assignment caching for better UX.
- Updated the AI Flyout menu; 'Generate' buttons are now disabled if AI Generators are turned off.
- Asset confirmation dialog doesn't show on initial replace and is more verbose.

### Fixed

- Fixed drag and drop functionality for material terrain layers, audio clips and images.
- Fixed an issue where the last object was not cleared in the image reference Object Selector.
- Better support for longer package file paths.
- Added additional recolor image validation checks.
- Fixed issues with renaming materials with generated material maps.
- Fixed the audio clip inspector to update correctly when the 'unityai' label is set on an asset.
- Fixed audio clip reference recording on Linux.
- Fixed legal agreement button over generate button.
- Fixed generating animation using video to motion during play mode.
- Fixed audio clip editing window repaint.
- Fixed animation clip window caching.

### Removed

- Removed the 'Generate' button from the AI Toolkit material shader graph interface for clarity.
- Removed model selection from image Upscale.
- Removed reference delete button where not used.

Documentation~/Texture/generate-texture2d.md, after:

---
uid: generate-texture2d
---

# Generate Texture2D asset with a prompt

Texture2D Generator generates 2D images that you can use to create a sprite, backdrop, or billboard. For example, you can use a generated image as the albedo texture map of an unlit material on a billboard that represents a tree.

To generate 2D images using [Texture2D](https://docs.unity3d.com/6000.0/Documentation/ScriptReference/Texture2D.html) Generator, follow these steps:

1. To open the Texture2D Generator window, right-click an empty area in the **Project** window.
1. Select **Create** > **Rendering** > **Generate Texture 2D**.

   ![Generate window with fields to generate 2D images](../images/texture.png)

1. To choose a model, select **Change**.

   The **Select Model** window opens. It displays the third-party AI models from partners like Scenario and Layer. 
1. Filter and search for models by tags or specific training styles, for example, **Anime** or **Cartoon 3D**. 
1. Select a model suited for the type of image you want to create.
1. In the **Prompt** field, describe the image you want to generate.

   For example, `Large tall tree`.

1. To exclude specific elements, enter the keywords in the **Negative Prompt** field.

   For example, `leaves`.

   For more information on negative prompts, refer to [Remove unwanted elements with negative prompts](xref:negative-prompt).
1. Set the following image properties:

   1. To set the number of images to generate, move the **Images** slider.
   1. Select the output image size from the **Dimensions** list.
   1. To specify a custom seed to generate consistent results, enable **Custom Seed** and enter a seed number.
   
      Every 2D image you generate has a seed. A seed is a number that you enter or that the tool generates automatically.

      For more information on custom seed, refer to [Use custom seed to generate consistent sprites](xref:custom-seed). 
1. Select **Generate**.

   The generated images appear in the **Generations** panel. Hover over an image to view details, such as the model used and prompt settings.

   > [!NOTE]
   > Texture2D Generator saves all the generated textures in the `/GeneratedAssets` folder located at the root of your project. These assets remain in that folder until you remove them manually.

## Additional resources

* [Generate Texture2D asset with a prompt](xref:generate-texture2d)
* [Generate window](xref:generate-window)
* [Texture2D](https://docs.unity3d.com/6000.0/Documentation/ScriptReference/Texture2D.html)
* [Use custom seed to generate consistent sprites](xref:custom-seed)
