Documentation~/Material/material-generate-prompt.md, before:

---
uid: material-generate-prompt
---

# Generate material with a prompt

Use the Material Generator to generate a new material using a text-based prompt and refine it using reference images and material properties.

To generate a new material, follow these steps:

1. Right-click an empty area in the **Project** window.
1. Select **Create** > **Rendering** > **Generate Material**.

   The **New Material** window opens. 
1. Select **Change** to open the **Select Model** window and choose a model.
1. Enter a text description of the material you want to create in the **Prompt** field.

   For example, `Wooden floor with natural grain`.

1. Enter elements you want to exclude from the generated material in the **Negative Prompt** field.

   For example, `No scratches or dirt`.

1. Use the **Materials** slider to set the number of variations of the material to generate.
1. Enable **Custom Seed** to generate consistent results.
1. Enter a seed number or let the tool generate one automatically.
1. (Optional) In the **Pattern Reference** field, do the following:
   1. Select the browse icon to open the **Select Texture 2D** window.
   2. Select a reference image to guide the pattern or control net.

      > [!NOTE]
      > For best results, use the provided `pattern_##` textures, which are optimized for seamless tiling and enhance material quality.
1. Select **Generate** to create the material.

The generated material appears in the **Generations** panel. Hover over a material to view details like the model used and prompt settings.

## Work with generated material

The generated material appears in the **Inspector** window. The preview sphere and cube provide a live update as you modify textures, patterns, and settings.

* The sphere helps visualize how the material behaves on curved surfaces.
* The cube helps to evaluate for tiling and seamlessness, especially for patterns and structured materials.

The generated material includes a base map, which acts as a simple foundation. Use the [**PBR**](xref:material-pbr) tab to achieve advanced material properties for an extra layer of realism.

You can apply the material to your objects in the **Scene** view. 

## Additional resources

* [Use the PBR tab](xref:material-pbr)
* [Use the Upscale tab](xref:material-upscale)

Commit message:

com.unity.ai.generators@1.0.0-pre.7 ## [1.0.0-pre.7] - 2025-05-12
### Added

- Added more items to the Model Selector Sidebar.
- Users can now name assets before they are created.
- Added the ability to open all material terrain layers simultaneously from terrain object.
- Added multiple tooltips.
- Added some missing model icons.
- Enabled Sprite Editor customization for opening the 'Promote Asset' generator window.
- Added support for material terrain layers.
- Added documentation regarding generated assets.
- Added documentation for the 'unityai' label.
- Added a new documentation topic on using custom seeds.

### Changed

- Update SDK to version 0.18.0.
- Improved material assignment caching for better UX.
- Updated the AI Flyout menu; 'Generate' buttons are now disabled if AI Generators are turned off.
- Asset confirmation dialog doesn't show on initial replace and is more verbose.

### Fixed

- Fixed drag and drop functionality for material terrain layers, audio clips and images.
- Fixed an issue where the last object was not cleared in the image reference Object Selector.
- Better support for longer package file paths.
- Added additional recolor image validation checks.
- Fixed issues with renaming materials with generated material maps.
- Fixed the audio clip inspector to update correctly when the 'unityai' label is set on an asset.
- Fixed audio clip reference recording on Linux.
- Fixed legal agreement button over generate button.
- Fixed generating animation using video to motion during play mode.
- Fixed audio clip editing window repaint.
- Fixed animation clip window caching.

### Removed

- Removed the 'Generate' button from the AI Toolkit material shader graph interface for clarity.
- Removed model selection from image Upscale.
- Removed reference delete button where not used.

Documentation~/Material/material-generate-prompt.md, after:

---
uid: material-generate-prompt
---

# Generate material with a prompt

Use Material Generator to generate a new material using a text-based prompt and refine it using reference images and material properties.

To generate a new material, follow these steps:

1. Right-click an empty area in the **Project** window.
1. Select **Create** > **Rendering** > **Generate Material**.

   The **New Material** window opens. 
1. Select **Change** to open the **Select Model** window and choose a model.
1. Enter a text description of the material you want to create in the **Prompt** field.

   For example, `Wooden floor with natural grain`.

1. Enter elements you want to exclude from the generated material in the **Negative Prompt** field.

   For example, `No scratches or dirt`.

   For more information on negative prompts, refer to [Remove unwanted elements with negative prompts](xref:negative-prompt).

1. Use the **Materials** slider to set the number of variations of the material to generate.
1. Enable **Custom Seed** to generate consistent results.
1. Enter a seed number or let the tool generate one automatically.

    For more information on custom seed, refer to [Use custom seed to generate consistent sprites](xref:custom-seed).
1. (Optional) In the **Pattern Reference** field, do the following:
   1. Select the browse icon to open the **Select Texture 2D** window.
   2. Select a reference image to guide the pattern or control net.

      > [!NOTE]
      > For best results, use the provided `pattern_##` textures, which are optimized for seamless tiling and enhance material quality.
1. Select **Generate** to create the material.

The generated material appears in the **Generations** panel. Hover over a material to view details like the model used and prompt settings.

> [!NOTE]
> Material Generator stores the generated material maps in the `/GeneratedAssets` folder located at the root of your project. These assets remain in that folder until you remove them manually.

## Work with generated material

The generated material appears in the **Inspector** window. The preview sphere and cube provide a live update as you modify textures, patterns, and settings.

* The sphere helps visualize how the material behaves on curved surfaces.
* The cube helps to evaluate for tiling and seamlessness, especially for patterns and structured materials.

The generated material includes a base map, which acts as a simple foundation. Use the [**PBR**](xref:material-pbr) tab to achieve advanced material properties for an extra layer of realism.

You can apply the material to your objects in the **Scene** view. 

## Additional resources

* [Use the PBR tab](xref:material-pbr)
* [Use the Upscale tab](xref:material-upscale)
* [Use custom seed to generate consistent sprites](xref:custom-seed)
