Documentation~/ai-gen-tools.md, before:

---
uid: tools
---

# AI Generator tools

The AI Generators consists of the following tools:

| Tool | Description |
|------| ------------|
| **Texture Generator** | Generates high-quality 2D assets based on text-based prompts and reference images. |
| **Material Generator** | Produces realistic surface materials using physically based rendering (PBR) properties. |
| **Sound Generator** | Generates game-ready audio assets. |
| **Animation Generator** | Creates animations based on character models and motion data. |

## Features of AI Generators

AI Generators provide a range of benefits to streamline asset creation and development.

* Faster asset creation: Generate game-ready assets using text-based prompts. You don't need to create assets manually from scratch.
* Creative flexibility: Use reference images to experiment with different styles and variations without any complex adjustments. 
* Improved quality: Generate assets with consistent resolution, color schemes, and patterns. Upscale low-resolution assets without losing quality.
* Reduced workload: Automate repetitive tasks like sprite creation and image generation rather than starting from scratch.
* Dynamic adaptation: Modify generated assets in real-time to suit different game environments.

Commit message:

com.unity.ai.generators@1.0.0-pre.7 ## [1.0.0-pre.7] - 2025-05-12
### Added

- Added more items to the Model Selector Sidebar.
- Users can now name assets before they are created.
- Added the ability to open all material terrain layers simultaneously from terrain object.
- Added multiple tooltips.
- Added some missing model icons.
- Enabled Sprite Editor customization for opening the 'Promote Asset' generator window.
- Added support for material terrain layers.
- Added documentation regarding generated assets.
- Added documentation for the 'unityai' label.
- Added a new documentation topic on using custom seeds.

### Changed

- Update SDK to version 0.18.0.
- Improved material assignment caching for better UX.
- Updated the AI Flyout menu; 'Generate' buttons are now disabled if AI Generators are turned off.
- Asset confirmation dialog doesn't show on initial replace and is more verbose.

### Fixed

- Fixed drag and drop functionality for material terrain layers, audio clips and images.
- Fixed an issue where the last object was not cleared in the image reference Object Selector.
- Better support for longer package file paths.
- Added additional recolor image validation checks.
- Fixed issues with renaming materials with generated material maps.
- Fixed the audio clip inspector to update correctly when the 'unityai' label is set on an asset.
- Fixed audio clip reference recording on Linux.
- Fixed legal agreement button over generate button.
- Fixed generating animation using video to motion during play mode.
- Fixed audio clip editing window repaint.
- Fixed animation clip window caching.

### Removed

- Removed the 'Generate' button from the AI Toolkit material shader graph interface for clarity.
- Removed model selection from image Upscale.
- Removed reference delete button where not used.

Documentation~/ai-gen-tools.md, after:

---
uid: tools
---

# Types of Generators

Generators consists of the following tools:

| Tool | Description |
|------| ------------|
| **Sprite Generator** | Generates high-quality 2D sprites based on text-based prompts and reference images.
| **Texture Generator** | Generates high-quality 2D assets based on text-based prompts and reference images. |
| **Material Generator** | Produces realistic surface materials using physically based rendering (PBR) properties. |
| **Sound Generator** | Generates game-ready audio assets. |
| **Animation Generator** | Creates animations based on character models and motion data. |

## Features of Generators

Generators provide a range of benefits to streamline asset creation and development.

* Faster asset creation: Generate game-ready assets using text-based prompts. You don't need to create assets manually from scratch.
* Creative flexibility: Use reference images to experiment with different styles and variations without any complex adjustments. 
* Improved quality: Generate assets with consistent resolution, color schemes, and patterns. Upscale low-resolution assets without losing quality.
* Reduced workload: Automate repetitive tasks like sprite creation and image generation rather than starting from scratch.
* Dynamic adaptation: Modify generated assets in real-time to suit different game environments.

## Additional resources

* [About Generators](xref:overview)
* [Generate sprite with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite)
