Documentation~/index.md, before:

---
uid: overview
---

# About Generators

Generators is a set of tools to create AI-generated assets from text input. Generators use machine learning to create, modify, and optimize game assets, such as texture, material, sound, and animation. These generators automate repetitive tasks and enhance creative workflows by generating high-quality assets based on user-defined prompts and settings.

## Prerequisites

Before you can use the **AI** menu and tools in the Unity Editor, ensure that:

* Your project is using Unity 6.2 (6000.2).
* You agreed and accepted the terms and conditions on the **AI** menu in the Unity Editor.

For more information, refer to [AI menu in Unity Editor](https://docs.unity3d.com/6000.2/Documentation/Manual/ai-menu.html).

Use the following topics to get started with using Generators.

| Topic | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| [Types of Generators](ai-gen-tools.md) | Get to know different Unity's Generators and their features. |
| [Sprite Generator](xref:sprite-overview) | Learn how to create high-quality 2D sprites based on text-based prompts and reference images. |
| [Texture2D Generator](xref:texture2d-overview) | Learn how to use machine learning to create high-quality 2D assets based on text-based prompts and reference images. |
| [Sound Generator](xref:sound-intro) | Learn how to create custom audio clips from text-to-sound models or reference audio clips. |
| [Animation Generator](xref:animation-intro) | Learn how to create animation clips directly from text or video inputs. |
| [Material Generator](xref:material-overview) | Learn how to create realistic materials for 3D objects based on text-based prompts and reference images. |
| [Terrain Layer Generator](xref:terrain-overview) | Learn how to generate and apply Terrain-compatible materials directly to Unity Terrain Layers with text-based prompts. |

## Additional resources

* [Generate sprite with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite)
* [Generate Texture2D asset with a prompt](xref:generate-texture2d)
* [Generate sound assets with a prompt](xref:sound-prompt)
* [Generate material with a prompt](xref:material-generate-prompt)
* [Create animation with Animation Generator](xref:animation-create)

Commit message:

com.unity.ai.generators@1.0.0-pre.17 ## [1.0.0-pre.17] - 2025-07-31
### Added

- Added upscale badge to generated sprites and textures.
- Added preview images and descriptions to image reference operation picker dialog.

### Changed

- Changed animation trim tab loop scoring method when 'Use Best Loop' is unchecked.
- Show favorited models first in model selector. GPT Image models understand text prompts very well and are favorited by default.

### Fixed

- Fixed 'ai' for 'AI' in tooltips.
- Fixed some generations stuck at 25% completing only on domain reload.
- Fixed favorite model icon color and state.
- Fixed obsolete drag and drop handler warning for Unity Editor 6.3.
- Fixed some image reference upload failures when Unity Editor loses focus.
- Fixed checkbox layout in model selector.
- Fixed missing tooltip in add to prompt control.

Documentation~/index.md, after:

---
uid: overview
---

# About Generators

Generators is a set of tools to create AI-generated assets from text input. Generators use machine learning to create, modify, and optimize game assets, such as texture, material, sound, and animation. These generators automate repetitive tasks and enhance creative workflows by generating high-quality assets based on user-defined prompts and settings.

## Prerequisites

Before you can use the **AI** menu and tools in the Unity Editor, ensure that:

* Your project is using Unity 6.2 (6000.2).
* You agreed and accepted the terms and conditions on the **AI** menu in the Unity Editor.

For more information, refer to [AI menu in Unity Editor](https://docs.unity3d.com/6000.2/Documentation/Manual/ai-menu.html).

Use the [Unity Dashboard](https://docs.unity.com/en-us/ai) to monitor your AI usage, manage your point balance, and configure settings across your organization. This helps you understand how often Generators are used, control costs, and ensure the right team members have access to the right tools.

Use the following topics to get started with using Generators.

| Topic | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| [Types of Generators](ai-gen-tools.md) | Get to know different Unity's Generators and their features. |
| [Sprite Generator](xref:sprite-overview) | Learn how to create high-quality 2D sprites based on text-based prompts and reference images. |
| [Texture2D Generator](xref:texture2d-overview) | Learn how to use machine learning to create high-quality 2D assets based on text-based prompts and reference images. |
| [Sound Generator](xref:sound-intro) | Learn how to create custom audio clips from text-to-sound models or reference audio clips. |
| [Animation Generator](xref:animation-intro) | Learn how to create animation clips directly from text or video inputs. |
| [Material Generator](xref:material-overview) | Learn how to create realistic materials for 3D objects based on text-based prompts and reference images. |
| [Terrain Layer Generator](xref:terrain-overview) | Learn how to generate and apply Terrain-compatible materials directly to Unity Terrain Layers with text-based prompts. |

## Additional resources

* [Generate sprite with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite)
* [Generate Texture2D asset with a prompt](xref:generate-texture2d)
* [Generate sound assets with a prompt](xref:sound-prompt)
* [Generate material with a prompt](xref:material-generate-prompt)
* [Create animation with Animation Generator](xref:animation-create)
