Documentation~/Sprite/generate-window.md, before:

---
uid: generate-window-sprite
---

# Generate window

The **Generate** window enables you to generate a new sprite asset or modify an existing sprite asset with generative models.  

To generate or modify an asset, provide input text prompts and (optional) reference images. You can then import the generated or modified asset into your project's **Asset** folder for use in a game.

Generated assets are saved as `.png` files by default. Unity lets you import `.png`, `.jpg`, and `.exr` files to work with different file formats as needed.

The following table describes the options available on the **Generate** window:

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| **Prompt** | Enter a text description of the sprite you want to create. |
| **Negative prompt** | Enter elements you want to exclude from the sprite. |
| **Model selection** | Select **Change** to choose the AI model used for sprite generation. |
| **Reference options** | Select [**Add More Controls to Prompt**](xref:reference-sprite) to define how reference images influence the generated sprite. |
| **Images** | Set the number of sprites to generate. |
| **Dimensions** | Set the size of the sprite output. |
| **Custom seed** | Set a fixed seed for consistent sprite generation. |
| **Generate** | Generate the sprite. |

For more information, refer to [Generate Sprite asset with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite).

## Additional resources

* [Generate sprite with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite)
* [Generate sprite from a reference images](xref:reference-sprite)
* [Manage generated sprites](xref:manage-sprite)

Commit message:

com.unity.ai.generators@1.0.0-pre.7 ## [1.0.0-pre.7] - 2025-05-12
### Added

- Added more items to the Model Selector Sidebar.
- Users can now name assets before they are created.
- Added the ability to open all material terrain layers simultaneously from terrain object.
- Added multiple tooltips.
- Added some missing model icons.
- Enabled Sprite Editor customization for opening the 'Promote Asset' generator window.
- Added support for material terrain layers.
- Added documentation regarding generated assets.
- Added documentation for the 'unityai' label.
- Added a new documentation topic on using custom seeds.

### Changed

- Update SDK to version 0.18.0.
- Improved material assignment caching for better UX.
- Updated the AI Flyout menu; 'Generate' buttons are now disabled if AI Generators are turned off.
- Asset confirmation dialog doesn't show on initial replace and is more verbose.

### Fixed

- Fixed drag and drop functionality for material terrain layers, audio clips and images.
- Fixed an issue where the last object was not cleared in the image reference Object Selector.
- Better support for longer package file paths.
- Added additional recolor image validation checks.
- Fixed issues with renaming materials with generated material maps.
- Fixed the audio clip inspector to update correctly when the 'unityai' label is set on an asset.
- Fixed audio clip reference recording on Linux.
- Fixed legal agreement button over generate button.
- Fixed generating animation using video to motion during play mode.
- Fixed audio clip editing window repaint.
- Fixed animation clip window caching.

### Removed

- Removed the 'Generate' button from the AI Toolkit material shader graph interface for clarity.
- Removed model selection from image Upscale.
- Removed reference delete button where not used.

Documentation~/Sprite/generate-window.md, after:

---
uid: generate-window-sprite
---

# Generate window

The **Generate** window enables you to generate a new sprite asset or modify an existing sprite asset with generative models.  

To generate or modify an asset, provide input text prompts and (optional) reference images. You can then import the generated or modified asset into your project's **Asset** folder for use in a game.

Generated assets are saved as `.png` files by default. Unity lets you import `.png`, `.jpg`, and `.exr` files to work with different file formats as needed.

The following table describes the options available on the **Generate** window:

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| **Prompt** | Enter a text description of the sprite you want to create. |
| **Negative prompt** | Enter elements you want to exclude from the sprite. |
| **Model selection** | Select **Change** to choose the AI model used for sprite generation. |
| **Reference options** | Select [**Add More Controls to Prompt**](xref:reference-sprite) to define how reference images influence the generated sprite. |
| **Images** | Set the number of sprites to generate. |
| **Dimensions** | Set the size of the sprite output. |
| **Custom seed** | Set a fixed seed for consistent sprite generation. <br>For more information on custom seed, refer to [Use custom seed to generate consistent sprites](xref:custom-seed).|
| **Generate** | Generate the sprite. |

For more information, refer to [Generate Sprite asset with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite).

## Additional resources

* [Generate sprite with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite)
* [Generate sprite from a reference images](xref:reference-sprite)
* [Manage generated sprites](xref:manage-sprite)
