Documentation~/Sprite/sprite-overview.md, before:

---
uid: sprite-overview
---

# Sprite Generator

Sprite Generator uses machine learning to create high-quality 2D sprites based on text-based prompts and reference images. A sprite is a 2D image that you can use as a 2D element in a game, such as a dog or a tree. You can apply the generated sprites directly to the **Scene** view, adjust the resolution, and modify the visual style to suit your game design.

Sprite Generator lets you do the following: 

* Generate sprites with text-based prompts.
* Apply reference images to control sprite style and shape.
* Fine-tune resolution and visual properties.
* Create stylised 2D assets, such as characters or icons.

Use the following topics to get started with Sprite Generator.

| Topic | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| [Generate sprite asset with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite) | Generate sprites with text-based prompt. |
| [Generate window](xref:generate-window-sprite) | Learn about the different options available on the **Generate** window. |
| [Generate sprite from reference images](xref:reference-sprite) | Generate sprites from a reference image. |
| [Manage generated sprites](xref:manage-sprite) | Learn to use the **Generations** panel to manage your generated sprites. |

## Additional resources

* [Modify generated sprites](xref:modify-sprite)
* [Generate window](xref:generate-window-sprite)

Commit message:

com.unity.ai.generators@1.0.0-pre.17 ## [1.0.0-pre.17] - 2025-07-31
### Added

- Added upscale badge to generated sprites and textures.
- Added preview images and descriptions to image reference operation picker dialog.

### Changed

- Changed animation trim tab loop scoring method when 'Use Best Loop' is unchecked.
- Show favorited models first in model selector. GPT Image models understand text prompts very well and are favorited by default.

### Fixed

- Fixed 'ai' for 'AI' in tooltips.
- Fixed some generations stuck at 25% completing only on domain reload.
- Fixed favorite model icon color and state.
- Fixed obsolete drag and drop handler warning for Unity Editor 6.3.
- Fixed some image reference upload failures when Unity Editor loses focus.
- Fixed checkbox layout in model selector.
- Fixed missing tooltip in add to prompt control.

Documentation~/Sprite/sprite-overview.md, after:

---
uid: sprite-overview
---

# Sprite Generator

Sprite Generator uses machine learning to create high-quality 2D sprites based on text-based prompts and reference images. A sprite is a 2D image that you can use as a 2D element in a game, such as a dog or a tree. You can apply the generated sprites directly to the **Scene** view, adjust the resolution, and modify the visual style to suit your game design.

Sprite Generator lets you do the following: 

* Generate sprites with text-based prompts.
* Apply reference images to control sprite style and shape.
* Fine-tune resolution and visual properties.
* Create stylised 2D assets, such as characters or icons.

Use the following topics to get started with Sprite Generator.

| Topic | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| [Generate sprite asset with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite) | Generate sprites with text-based prompt. |
| [Generate window](xref:generate-window-sprite) | Learn about the different options available on the **Generate** window. |
| [Generate sprite from reference images](xref:reference-sprite) | Generate sprites from a reference image. |
| [Manage generated sprites](xref:manage-sprite) | Learn to use the **Generations** panel to manage your generated sprites. |
| [Sprite Editor workflow](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.enhancers@latest) | Generate and enhance sprites in context, directly from the Sprite Editor window. |

## Additional resources

* [Modify generated sprites](xref:modify-sprite)
* [Generate window](xref:generate-window-sprite)
