Documentation~/Sprite/Reference/model-picker.md, before:

---
uid: model-picker
---

# Choose the right model with the Model Picker

Use the Model Picker to select the artificial intelligence (AI) model you want to use to generate the 2D assets. Each model is trained to produce a specific style. The generators use this model to interpret your prompt and reference images.

The Model Picker is available in the [Sprite Generator](xref:sprite-overview) and [Texture2D Generator](xref:texture2d-overview) windows. Other generators, such as [Material Generator](xref:material-overview), [Sound Generator](xref:sound-intro), and [Animation Generator](xref:animation-intro), use the default Unity model.

To select a model using the Model Picker, follow these steps:

1. In the **Generate** window, select **Change**.

   The **Select All Model** window shows all the models available for the current asset type (for example, Sprite or Texture2D). It also displays the name, type, and a visual preview of the model.

1. Use the filter options to narrow down the models:

   1. To find models that suit your asset type, such as **Characters** or **Props**, use the options in the **Tags** section.
   1. Reorder the model list with the **Sort** options: **Recently Used**, **Alphabetical**, **Reverse Alphabetical**.

After you select a model, it shows in the **Generate** window.

## Additional resources

* [Generate sprite with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite)
* [Generate Texture2D asset with a prompt](xref:generate-texture2d)
* [Generate sound asset with a prompt](xref:sound-prompt)
* [Generate material with a prompt](xref:material-generate-prompt)

Commit message:

com.unity.ai.generators@1.0.0-pre.20 ## [1.0.0-pre.20] - 2025-08-27
### Added

- Expanded image generation capabilities to include BMP, GIF, TIFF, PSD, and HDR, in addition to existing support for PNG, JPG, and EXR.
- Added pattern search button and window to material generator.
- Added descriptive shader input label names to generated map material assignments.
- Added simple heuristic for message log feedback when a generation was likely filtered by a content filter.

### Changed

- Allow partial completion and recovery of generated assets.
- Improve image preview quality with multi-step blitting.
- When no image model selected, automatically select favorited model, typically Flux 1.dev.

### Fixed

- Generation download recovery waits until connection is made on startup.
- Searching generated assets is faster.
- Remove alpha when sending image references as models do not look at alpha channel.
- Fixed filters in model selector applying instantly to generator window.
- Fixed UI offset in Generation Data window.
- Fixed missing map assignments when promoting between generated material and terrain layer.

Documentation~/Sprite/Reference/model-picker.md, after:

---
uid: model-picker
---

# Choose the right model with the Model Picker

Use the Model Picker to select the artificial intelligence (AI) model you want to use to generate the 2D assets. Each model is trained to produce a specific style. The generators use this model to interpret your prompt and reference images.

The Model Picker is available in the [Sprite Generator](xref:sprite-overview) and [Texture2D Generator](xref:texture2d-overview) windows. Other generators, such as [Material Generator](xref:material-overview), [Sound Generator](xref:sound-intro), and [Animation Generator](xref:animation-intro), use the default Unity model.

To select a model using the Model Picker, follow these steps:

1. In the **Generate** window, select **Change**.

   The **Select All Model** window shows all the models available for the current asset type (for example, Sprite or Texture2D). It also displays the name, type, and a visual preview of the model.

1. Use the filter options to narrow down the models:

   1. To find models that suit your asset type, such as **Characters** or **Props**, use the options in the **Tags** section.
   1. Reorder the model list with the **Sort** options: **Recently Used**, **Alphabetical**, **Reverse Alphabetical**.

1. (Optional) To mark a model as a favorite, move your pointer over the model thumbnail and select the white star in the top-right corner. The star turns yellow when marked as favorite.

    ![Select AI Model window with models, one marked as a favorite with a yellow star.](../../images/favorite.png)

   1. To view only your favorites, select **Favorites** from the **Model** section.
   2. To remove a favorite, deselect the yellow star.

After you select a model, it shows in the **Generate** window.

## Additional resources

* [Generate sprite with a prompt](xref:generate-sprite)
* [Generate Texture2D asset with a prompt](xref:generate-texture2d)
* [Generate sound asset with a prompt](xref:sound-prompt)
* [Generate material with a prompt](xref:material-generate-prompt)
